I had a very good cooperation with Russia, who is a very active member of the OSCE, and
did a lot on behalf of particularly persecuted the Christians throughout the world.
So it seems to me somewhat paradoxical that now there are problems of religious liberty
inside Russia.
I understand that the law used against Jehovah's Witnesses is a law against extremism.
And it's perfectly understandable that Russia for its geopolitical location and its
struggle against terrorism is conserved about extremism.
However, religious liberty is something fragile, and definitions of extremism may easily
be used against groups who are somewhat unpopular.
And this is normally a test for the quality of religious liberty in one country.
I've been studying Jehovah's Witnesses for 40 years, and a very important point is in
technical terms, they are what historians and sociologists call a peace community.
They are non-violent and peaceful, and they have never encountered instances of violence.
The only relationship between Jehovah's Witnesses and violence has been victims of violence.
The Nazi regime killed more than 2,000 of them.
And there is a famous story that's so peaceful where the Jehovah's Witnesses, when in concentration
camps, the Nazi use them as barbers, given their answer, razor, because they are the only
inmates who can be trusted not to turn the razor against the Nazi world.
So, Jehovah's Witnesses are extremely peaceful community.
Now, I know under Russian law, sometimes they are accused of being extremist because
in their literature, it is argued that they are the only true religion, but there are two
comments about this.
Number one, a certain emphatic style is typical of religious literature in general.
We find this in the Holy Quran of the Muslim.
We find this in the Old Testament in the Bible.
And the second one is that Jehovah's Witnesses do not advocate that states or governments
should give them a better treatment than to members of any other religion.
So, I believe calling Jehovah's Witnesses extremist is based on a misreading of what is
the typical literary style of their literature, and the bending or discriminating in any way
against Jehovah's Witnesses will be a mistake, will be dangerous for religious liberty
of many other groups, and will tarnish the image Russia enjoys as a government, and
the country who does allot in the international fora to advocate religious liberty for persecuted
Christians in many other countries of the world.